The names and the stories in this episode have been omitted to protect the privacy of the individuals involved.
This is Jockel Podcast number 37.
With echo Charles and me, Jockel Willick, good evening echo.
Good evening.
And with us tonight, I am honored to have retired chief warn officer Roger Hayden here with us tonight as a guest.
Now unless you are in the seal teams or you were in the seal teams, then you likely don't know who Roger Hayden is.
In fact, I'm going to go ahead and guarantee you don't know who Roger Hayden is.
There's no book, there's no movie, there's no social media, there's no one to google.
And I've talked before about how there's three types of guys in the seal teams.
The guys that built the reputation that the seal team has, the guys that maintain the reputation of the seal teams.
And then there's the guys that live off the reputation of the seal teams.
Usually those guys didn't contribute much to it in the first place.
But let there be no doubt Roger Hayden is without question, without question.
One of the people, one of the men responsible for building the reputation of the seal teams.
He did the massive heavy lifting and laid down the foundation of everything that the seal teams are in the jungles of Vietnam.
And he passed on lessons of combat written and blood that we carry to this day.
One of the guys here, Roger Hayden that truly forged the attitude that makes the seal teams what the seal teams are.
And I'm going to tell you quickly how I first heard of Roger.
So I was back, I was a new guy at seal team one. So it's 1991.
And back then no one really seals weren't that popular yet.
And the old seal, UDT seal reunions were not that big of a deal.
There, there were just kind of a small little gig down it, down it like the Lions Club or something in national city, real low key.
But the only guys, none of the younger seals went to him who's all Vietnam seals, maybe a couple world war, two guys.
And I was down there with my run and mate at the time, my good friend who's at seal team one who I've gone through buzz with guy by the name of Chris.
And we were just sitting around talking to some old Vietnam guys and we were getting pretty fired up.
You know what's kind of, there's, you don't want you pay the $10 feet to get into this gig.
There's free beer. So we were a few beers deep. You might say we're listening to stories.
And again, we were new guys. This is 1991. We didn't never been in combat. So we were there to try and learn and about the history and learn about the guys and finally me being young and dumb and pretty well buzzed.
I asked these two Vietnam guys that we were sitting there talking to.
I said, hey, who was the most badass murder in mother fucker and seal and Vietnam?
And both these guys looked at me and said Roger, hey.
And I remember that name. And when I actually met you for the first time, you were, I'd met you a couple times.
But then when I actually worked with you for the first time, you were a lane grader on a patoon, full mission profile.
And that's actually the first time I learned truly understood the concept of cover move, which is a basic tactic, which guys didn't know.
No one had taught it to me. This was my second patoon. I'd already been through a workup.
I had the idea in my head, but here in you say it the way you described it, I said it, be clicked in my head and never forgot it.
And I actually wrote about it in the book, extreme ownership. And that's what I taught all the seals that when I was putting through training, that's what I taught them.
One of those fundamental tactics. And so that's kind of my introduction to Roger Hayden.
So Roger, I know you've actually literally never done an interview before.
And I want to thank you for coming on. It's a true honor to have you on the podcast. So welcome.
Yeah, Roger Hayden here. Thanks, Jack. I really appreciate it. And you're one of my heroes who different environment different times did you kick ass and tuck names to.
I wasn't, I was just one of the boys in the, in CLT-1 when I got there and deployed a couple of times with them.
And our environment was the jungle and we got pretty good at it. And when I went out and hunted the bad guys, nobody else in Vietnam as far as I know army Marines.
Or any of them would go out at night. They would usually hold up at a base camp or somewhere like that while we figured nighttime's when they move around.
That's when we're going to move around. Simply can find these guys and take them out. That's what we did.
It isn't one guy. It's a team effort. Everybody works hard. I had some great great buddies in mine that were, I mean, my gun partner was a stoner guy. And I was a 60 guy between the two of us.
He shot a thousand runs a minute and nine of five five. I mean, a 716 my 60 at work out well.
Last but two night was in we carried four 60s and five stoners. And if you get in carry a stoner or a 60, you carry that 16 with a 203 on it or XNM 140 for back committee guys.
Say those numbers again of how many guys were carrying 60s and stoners for us or carrying 60s and five guys carried stoners out of a 14 member to that's what we operated.
So those used to fill in out there that are listening, that's a lot of firepower. That's that's a way you bring the thunder. And so where where'd you grow up though before you got the teams where to grow up.
Basically my roots in what I look at my dad was a carpenter. So we moved quite a bit around but there was a place called Roanan Montana by the flat head lake in Montana.
And I really have the mission range and a real real brief area. I grew up green breaking horses and stuff like that and building three houses and just working on my grandpa's farm and my uncle's ranch and stuff like that. So that's kind of where I grew up at.
I lived a wild Phoenix Arizona and stuff like that and says here in the next thing sports where I played football outside lineback or I box for two years in high school.
And I swam my dad built work on the tram and palms springs and when he was there I went to pond spring high school so I got on the water pole team there.
So that's that's how you got a little comfortable in the water.
Yeah. Oh yeah.
So at what point what year was it when you actually decided you're going to join the Navy?
I was 1965. And did you know already know about the seal teams? Well, no nobody's not about him.
My dad, like you said he was a carpenter but he was in UDT3 and it was at Swam on the in Chilin Harbor in Vietnam but I didn't I'm not getting I'm Korea but I didn't know anything about it because you never talked about it.
Your dad was a frog. Yeah, but I mean that's I knew guys that knew him over older guys.
I mean when I was young guy like he said you were your talking.
So anyway, but he never said much about it but when I was a kid, you know I watched the bridges river quiet and the guns never owned and I also seen the marine sitting beaches and the Rangers getting wiped out and I went okay if you're going to fight you want to get something that you think you're going to come back with.
That's why I became a frog man and we didn't go through buds. It was UDT or a underwater demolition journey.
So, you got, so you joined the Navy did, did you go straight to straight to underwater demolition journey?
No, no back in the day they wanted to have an A school.
So I got a boot camp in 65, went to North Island in Coronado for about seven months waiting for my radio in school.
And it was lucky enough to go to 22 weeks of radio in school.
And then went from there to the US as Paul Rivera for about four months and then went to training.
I started training January 6th, 1967.
How big was your classroom you showed up to that?
There was about, I don't know, 200 of us maybe, maybe 150.
How many guys made it?
There were about 30 of us that made it, which was pretty good and it was colder than shit.
I don't know how you guys did when you went to training, Dr. Cobb.
But we made a pack that we were going to land in but it quit.
We did everything we could to make that happen.
And some guys did make it through that we shouldn't have.
Yeah, that's one of the, that's one of the things I've talked about with Lafayne is,
you see that and I was never in structure at buds, but eventually you say, you don't want to help people through.
They're not going to make it through on their own. You don't want them.
You know, you got to get guys that are going to get through it on their own.
Yeah, but you know what I mean? Yeah, no.
Yeah, no.
We got close and we got a figure.
You know, I had a guy who was a previous fleet guy and he had been to buds before.
And I became friends with his second class mature guy and I thought, yeah, this guy.
I'm going to kind of follow his lead a little bit.
You know, second night of hell week, he quit.
I was just, I was laughing.
I'm like, oh, but here's a mature guy.
Twenty seven years old, you know, I was a kid and he's quitting ridiculous.
So then you, but when you got done with the initial UDTR A, you went to a, you checked it out.
UDT right? Yeah, he's really funny because, you know,
good friend of mine up in Flagstaffs, what are you joined in?
We decide we're going to be Marines, you know, so and he's dad, you go out of canal, you name us.
This is an uncles, D.I.s. you just a Marine, but he talked me into it too.
So we went up to doing the Marines well.
That officers closed and right across the hallway was the Navy Recrearing.
And there was a boesmete of the line, you know, lean against the, the door and he goes,
When he boys do, you know, we're going to join Marines, you know, which, you know, that's so good.
And he goes, I asked the other guy, well, you're parents background, everything.
And he's going to be a Marine, sorry, knew it. He was going to be a seven to two.
Well, my dad was in the Navy, a chief in the dead as he says, come here, son.
So my buddy went off to be a Marine, I went to Navy.
That close.
Yeah, I think we all have a story like that.
Yeah, I know really close.
Yeah, I had a buddy Bruce. We saw, like, some ship pulled in and we saw guys,
Marine uniforms and we were like, let's go join. Let's just go join.
That's how effective that recruiting to this. Oh, yeah, it's a lovely, I like it.
With a longer one. It wasn't open. You know, that's about the Marine and the Navy office is open.
So it's a really nice office.
And so he showed up at UDT and then what was the schedule there?
I mean, the Vietnam War was already on. So now it's like, is it in 1966 now?
No, I didn't. Got one into UDT 67. I graduated in training,
I was in the UDT. Yeah, the word been on. And then we had heard a little bit about
SIL team, but still didn't know very much about it.
Because everybody I graduated with, these course and west course,
you went to a UDT team first. Then you did a trip with UDT.
Then you came back and got in the SIL team.
And how was that first trip with UDT?
I was great. I was in a nine month trip and we had different debts that you went to
in Vietnam. Like first thing we did is go to Denang.
Please, cold camp 10 shot and we worked up at Fueway, way, Quang 3,
Dung Hall all over the northern part of South Vietnam.
Doing demo work, different things, you know what I mean?
And then we left that debt and went on the U.S.S. Tajanko.
And we did about 110 miles of beach recon.
And then from there, we went some of us went down to a debt in the...
Will this hydrographic concert or whether just we had the college?
No, that's perpindic. Old school, perpindicular.
For parallel, not perpindic, but most from repair, we didn't do any perpindic,
or is that your combat, you know what I mean?
So for those of you that don't know, the original job of one of the original jobs
the U.D.T. was to find out how deep the water is off of a beach.
So an obstacle. And if there's any obstacles there,
that could trip up a boat that's coming in.
And so you said you did 110 miles of that.
Yeah, three months.
That's an interview. Basically you have to swim with a lead line.
So you have a cord with a piece of lead on the bottom of it.
You've got different markings on it to tell you how deep how long it is.
And you sit there and you swim along.
And you rate every 25 meters.
And you have a beach party on the beach.
And it has a swim line going out.
And we had a hook to an IBS.
In case we got intercepting that IBS can turn and get us out of the railroad.
Grab onto the course of it's only a 9.5 or 5 region.
So you didn't go out very fast.
Yeah, you'll swim fast.
But every 25 meters, it takes sound means sound means sound means when you got back to the
Dachinko then the photographer, which I was lucky enough to be one, you do a
A hydrographic chart.
When I got the UDT 12, you know, you're pretty regimen it.
And I'll call it by as it was UDT.
It'd be a pretty regimen.
But when we got there, our proteins were even formed up.
And you were kind of lost at sea.
You know, I mean, no, he's really telling you what you have to do.
You're not in the plutonium.
And it was kind of floating.
I mean, we went up and did lifeguard stuff for the Marines when I did land
Theumsupite penalty time stuff like that.
It wasn't really a lot to do.
You know, we're going to Jesus.
You know, play volleyball lot.
You know, ran around your UDT's and four boots.
And you know, so then we started forming up and how UDT worked is that
You'd, they'd be home for nine months.
And then the whole team would deploy and relieve the team that was out
There, like we were really duty to 11.
And the level would come back nine months later, they would come out and
Relieve us.
So as nine months deployments and almost port and starboard,
You didn't have like a year and a half, two years of work.
That was about nine months.
And then months home with a work up.
And there was the work up.
What did you do in the work up?
Oh, we did everything.
We did recon.
We did demolition raids.
We did river recon.
So we just, how many guys were in the UDT pool team?
18 or 20.
Maybe it might have been 20.
It was quite a bad because you got this one relying on the party and all that other stuff.
You know, that's why we did the old part.
We always try to get a couple extra guys because we didn't cover more beach.
It should same do.
Yeah.
And everything you did on and we'd do just, it was just a lot.
You know, I mean, and it was a lot of physical work too.
And everything.
UDT actually went into training.
I think we did about 50 times more swimming than the guys doing bugs now.
Because that's what we were real frog men.
You know, so.
Yeah, that's a lot of the future more swimming than we did a bug.
That's a lot of swim.
I'm glad I went through bugs instead of that.
Well, they're surf out there and January is pretty cool.
Yeah, there's no doubt.
And when you were there, you tell me before about some of the kind of hook and onto some of the conventional units on some of their operations that they did with the, I think it was the 19th century.
Yeah, so we were down in the Delta.
I know, we were doing river recon's.
And I think we're the ones that ever did with this.
They called them the darts and it would look like a jet ski, but you laid on it and you got it with your feet.
And had a 355 degree camera up on top and a father on the bottom of it.
And it had a piece of aluminum like this of course.
So you wouldn't get hit with a prop's of stuff.
And the handles were on the right and left.
You don't understand.
And they went up to about 30 knots.
What they would do is take two of us either by chopper, something drop us in a canal.
It would come down that canal.
Then we got back.
We do a chart of that.
And that would let the 19th century in their river in boats.
No, if they could go up there and do a landing or not, that's one of the things we did.
Of course, you only would down the river.
Maybe once or twice and you didn't go down any more.
I was too, which you care for, which you carry like a side arm when you're on that way.
Yeah, we had a 45 in front of the cover there.
And that's what we had.
We had a black jacket on a helmet, UD keys and.
And we had a tight weather fee.
Which you do tonight or the daytime?
A daytime.
Oh, day.
And then, you know, with that 350 degree camera across,
canals coming into pagoda.
Is anything that was a known thing you could find on a map.
Would take a picture of as we went down.
You tried to stay at the same speed all the way down.
Because otherwise your your chart wouldn't be good.
But we could really did that.
We couldn't do it too much. So, I mean, just a different rivers and different canals and stuff.
So, we got bored.
So, we started going out with the 9th century on those river boats to be their demolition guys.
Blow a bunker.
And sometimes they put log dams across the river.
We blow those up and stuff.
And we took some heavies on that doing that.
So, it looks sort of kind of situations to get in when you're writing up with a 9th
Infantry.
Well, we got caught in ambush one time.
They usually had about 7.5, 6.7 boats.
They had a boat in the front called an alphabet.
It looked like your old,
Monterne and the Civil War.
And then they had like the landing craft.
They had those with bar armor and the side.
And then they had 50s up on top and back there that old build up.
And they had bar armor.
So, that if a B40 rocket punch suit and they had real thick styrofoam.
So, that would just be channeled into one area if they hit them from the sides.
And they had 30s, 230s on each side.
Each one of the landing craft type of boats that they put the troops in.
And right in the middle of that was what they call monitor.
You've seen that.
That was that's over in Cismfield.
That's a great big boat.
And then to back they had another alphabet.
And then all the ones in between.
So, who was the, what are those navy boats?
Were they army boats?
No, they're navy.
They were navy guys doing, I wouldn't have that job for anything.
Yeah, no.
So, anyway, we was going up and a group at one of the before-estrops.
There are people off.
They came right by us.
As soon as we got by them, they opened up on us.
And then it was a bad day.
We had 30 killed in 70 wounded Americans.
Yeah.
And like the alphabet had of us.
Everybody but one guy was killed on.
And that boat was floating by and still the American flag flying.
And there was one guy on the back on the 30 still shooting.
I mean, it was, you know, it still almost quacks me up.
Not quacks me up and tears me up when I think about that.
But it was just, that's the American flag.
You know, that's the way we are.
So, not give those riverbow guys all the credit in the world on those tango boats.
Because they're just sitting targets, you know.
And then after we got hit of course, we all got, we, we're in the fourth boat back.
And we heard number one boats hit.
That was the, number two boats hit.
Number three boats hit.
We're number four boat.
There were three of us shooting T guys.
And I've both never remember looking over again.
He went, you go on work fucked.
Excuse me, I shouldn't have said it.
Anyway, then we got hit, blew us all down and stuff.
And I've, one of everybody's had about 53 pieces wrapped running.
So I called it over to him and hitting with morphine.
Got up in the Navy.
Got blown off the 30.
You know, so I shoot in that until I round our rounds and shit.
Well, the other guy, I know that was, I got hit.
The other guy saw tall mess up.
So he goes over and didn't see my pins who was collar.
So he had seen with another shooting more.
She didn't.
He lived.
And then me and,
I mean, we just, our shooting was the sides and stuff.
And the army guys wouldn't get up and shoot there.
Handing us up weapons or shoot.
Well, sometimes I'm giving them to us and we're up there hammering down.
Sometimes you get a frog band up.
Then the cobras came in in army cobras and,
holes everything down real good.
So what they were, they doing like an actual landing.
That's what the purpose was.
And they were going to get a beach foothold that work an area for a while.
Work to make a sweep through there and don't ask me why the Marines weren't doing it.
We had the night.
I tell you why the Marines weren't doing it.
Was there a hole in the DMZ up in the north?
They shouldn't Marines.
That's their job.
But the ninth infantry did a good job.
Yeah.
Well, I know you haven't listened to this podcast much,
but I know you have, you have read the book that that lay for me.
And you know that I have nothing but nothing but the most utter
highest respect for the Marines and the army units that we work with
were just phenomenal.
And the sacrifices that they made in the bravery they showed on the battlefield
was unbelievable on a daily basis.
So I know it's definitely something.
And you think about this now.
Think of the training that we went through just for UDT to start with.
And then I came back meeting with the seal team.
So you get all the what you guys call a SKT.
We call it Cadbury back in the day.
And then you go over again.
You've already had your feet in the gun.
Now you figure these army guys go through basic training.
And a lot of them had right over the Vietnam.
You know what I mean?
And they could be in Shal Valley anywhere.
And where the crap probably hit the hit the brick and you imagine that.
We had the training.
We were volunteers.
We volunteered for what we're going to do.
We weren't just saying here.
You know we knew exactly where we were going to go.
And we wanted to go.
You know what I mean?
So yeah.
Yeah.
You know another weird thing about Vietnam.
I've talked a lot about Vietnam books from Vietnam.
Guys that from that were Vietnam here.
And you know, the fact that these guys would rotate out.
You'd be in the middle of the deployment.
You just, you know, guys were just rotating out all the time.
You know, it wasn't like what you just described what you did in the seal teams and in
UDT.
And what we still do in the seal teams now is you get with your guys.
You go through a work up with those guys together as a team.
Then you go on deployment together as a team and you come home together as a team.
And the army guys, they would just, yeah, they're just filling in the holes and the guy would go home.
And another guy would take his place.
So you never work with this.
You know, you could have a guy on a patrol with you two or three guys.
You never work with before you're going out of patrol with him.
So it's, uh, I don't like that system.
I like the way we do it.
We might be a force company.
You know, that was, well, where you get a little thing.
You know, what happened?
No, the new guys that came into the platoon.
You know, was it?
Oh, yeah, I was checking in.
Yeah.
Everybody's already been there already.
They're just coming in.
They hadn't worked up with these guys.
Nothing.
They were just showing up.
You know, poppin' in.
We actually did take a couple guys in when I was in the body.
We took a couple guys that just showed up.
We just got a new guy's and we just had to slowly, you know, put him in the watch.
What did you have?
People that were taking out.
That's why they came in.
And they were just guys that were filling in.
We did.
We lost guys, but they were just guys that they, they got sent to seal team three from SQT.
And when they got there, there's no one there.
So they brought him over on the plinit.
A couple guys was like two or three guys.
And we just, you know, okay, here's, we made a work in the compound for a while.
And then maybe bring them out.
They'd be a turret gunner on top and maybe eventually get let them do the work.
Yeah, that's pretty obvious what you should do it.
And so any other, any other, any other, then,
And then we used to teach stuff, yeah, so another time we were,
We used to be on the front boat, the alpha boat,
because they're, were the first ones that saw the log dams or
we didn't had to blow a bunkers in shit.
And we had about a big stack of sea-fjorn in the back, you know,
the haversax in shit, you know, and also in the whole boat.
It shook like this. We got to be 40 rock at right in one of the exhaust tubes.
And we started sinking.
So we, they give the cocks and ran it to shore and everything.
And we were shooting back and everything, but the fucking boat was sinking.
And if that had been about another eight inches higher to hit all that sea-fjorn.
But we landed, and then we swam off and got out in the river
and this other, they called it a zip-able.
It was like the tube carry in both of us. It was all napon,
or not napon, whatever they got in flames, the worst, you know?
Oh, flames for our boat.
Okay.
And this thing just went on the beach and on we went and climbed up on that.
We got out of there.
That's in the crewman.
That was, that was an other moment of excitement.
You know, it's, it's just to go off of what you just said to,
with the training that you get in special operations.
The old teams, whatever, Rangers, SF.
These, you know, a lot of times we, in special operations, get a lot of praise for doing what we do.
And that's great and everything.
But like what you're talking about, being in a conventional unit,
it's the same thing over in Iraq and Afghanistan, being a conventional guy.
It's no joke.
I mean, it's, in many cases, they're doing a much more dangerous job.
I mean, even, you know, logistics jobs, something like that,
where they're exposing themselves on a regular basis.
So anybody out there that's a civilian that thinks that the conventional guys
aren't doing, you know, aren't taking as many risks as a special operation.
Guys, I'm telling you right now, they absolutely are.
They absolutely are.
And of course, there's things that that all special ops guys do that,
step it up as well.
But everybody, everybody pays a price and everybody takes a lot of risk when they go over there.
And it sounds like it was the same thing when you had the ninth infantry roll and up the river.
Yeah, those guys were good.
They didn't do jobs and if I seem to say anything,
derogatory, I apologize.
Oh, no, you didn't.
You didn't at all.
I'm just pointing out a lot of times.
Again, people, I'm sitting here thinking,
I'm thinking exactly what you just said, here you are,
you're easy to, you've been through all this training and you,
you know, when that boat starts thinking, you're like, hey,
I'm going to jump on the swim.
There's a regular army guys there.
They're, they're thinking they haven't had the training that you had.
And yet they're still in the same almost the same exact situation.
So one other thing in duty,
we're doing a beach recon and I was like a photographer,
so I'm up in front with another guy and I'm at this big huge piece of
plexiglass.
I'm doing all the back-sour information on,
but I'm ahead of him.
We're putting in the stakes.
So the guys behind us can hit every 25 meters and do their sound needs and stuff.
Well, we didn't usually we had Arvan,
which are your south-eastern,
the Meas Army or we had Marines that would do screening force.
You know, when we were doing the beach recon,
so we couldn't get either one of them.
So we had two of our own guys doing it.
So there were walkin' going behind.
It was all, a lot of sand dunes and stuff like that on the beach.
You know, trees, little forces of,
well, we almost walked right into his L-shaped ambush
that they had set up force except the two guys back here.
They had a spider hole back here,
so that when we fell back from the ambush,
we'd show off any of us were still living.
These guys would get us right.
They hit these guys.
So I made them open up, which made them open up earlier,
then we leapfrog down and got out of there.
But that was a few moments of excitement too.
And that's when I got back to the USS-Dyshink,
and I went, you know,
screwed this naked warrior shit.
Tell me how sexy it can be,
I'm gonna be glad, nothing's got to do it.
I don't like running down the beach and UDTs,
I'm gonna call a boot shoot in M79,
even heads down and shit, you know what I mean?
Yeah, it was, but I was just UDTs,
and so I didn't talk too much about it, you know,
I wasn't a seal.
So you get back from that deployment.
Oh yeah, yeah.
Every month when I was on that deployment,
I mean, I got him,
we'd put in a chip to go to the seal team,
and they'd just cheer or ask us out,
he ain't going anywhere until we get back, you know.
All right, so we'd wait a month and put another cheat in.
And when we got back, boom, we weren't right to a,
Cadry, go and check into SILT-1 and then went into Cadry.
And the counter trading was what we call now,
SILT, SILT, SILT.
All your ID's, all that stuff,
and actually on the Alimal River,
and a few other places they had it set up to be exactly like,
it would be in Vietnam with watched little watch towers,
and they had a whole village that was in amongst all the shit
that's on the side of the Alimal River and stuff.
It was really good turning.
Yeah.
And then we'd do that ambush ass with ambush them,
they'd come down in, you know,
sand pans we had there and stuff like that.
And just like on a, you know,
you do an ambush on a river,
you always want to try to do it at a curve,
and hit them.
So that way the sand pans after you hit them and stuff
or flown to the bank.
And keep on going down the river and you can't get enough of them.
Just all kinds of little tricks.
And what they did, our cadry,
that ran us through the,
our cadry instructors were guys that had just gotten back
and they pulled them out of the platoon to do that for about six months
before they went back into another blue tune.
So we were getting continuous guys right out of the field,
and we had an arm which is all good in different areas too.
The triple canopy shed, your mangrove stuff,
and you know the race paddies and all that stuff like that.
Where would you do a bulk of the training?
Oh, out of the nightland.
And then we'd go up to Quimacca for map and compass and stuff.
And then a bunch of us went through what they called
sealed van training,
which is for your proof program,
which was five months long.
And that was all tree graph medical and stuff like that.
Really, really good. Got really honed in more even on the I.D.s.
and stuff like that.
We would be trapped trails, in kale trails, all kinds of stuff here.
It's interesting as you talk about that,
how much of that stuff carried on to you.
When I showed up at Zilting, but one,
you know, we did the all we did booby trap trails.
You know, there was no more than a minute of work going on for 20 years when I got there.
You know, in the Gulf War,
but we still did booby trap trails.
We did point mancourses.
We did the medical stuff.
We did river ambushes.
It's awesome that that.
And there was no,
it wasn't really written down anywhere.
That's yeah, you should add two weeks of advanced demo and catch in table demo.
Oh yeah, because we sent all that up until the one I know it's you had.
Shoulda, she'll been going.
But that's awesome that it lasted that long.
You know, with no,
because the weird thing about seal team is,
we didn't used to have anything written down.
It was barely anything written down.
And so all that knowledge was passed word amount from guy to guy to guy.
And that's,
I think we've corrected that now where we capture more of the stuff.
You might, but you know,
you have everyone in fight rangers.
Get the ranger handbook.
Yeah, yeah.
That's the only thing I had against that little bit.
It still should stay in house.
It should be rolled down,
but you know what I'm saying?
Yeah.
I don't, you know,
I can give you a ranger handbook.
Can you can find out exactly how those guys are going to fight.
What their methods are, everything.
And another thing I've talked about
on here is when you have doctrine,
and you get tasks with something that's not the doctrine,
you get confused.
You know, what to do.
Yeah, that's one of the, that's one of the reasons I think seal teams have been very successful
in the recent past and even in the, even in the longer past is because
we didn't have a book to look at.
We had to figure out how to do it.
And so no matter what the mission is,
we always had a fresh look at it in the,
we adapt.
We're in North of the Docks, we adapt.
I mean,
you know,
our guys,
if you had pulled a platoon right out of Vietnam and put them in
the water.
You know,
I know you wouldn't have been lost in the sea.
you know,
you wouldn't have been lost in sea.
You know,
because it's the principles of the same,
the same principle that you guys taught me was the same thing we did over there.
We'd have figured it out.
Cover,
move,
take the high ground.
Yeah,
we would have figured out,
but,
you know,
we didn't have overwatches.
There's something like that.
When it's a pitch target night,
you know,
working a way through real quiet,
not making a lot of noise.
Everything you do is for,
you know,
being silent or just like,
you guys never have to do things like,
you know,
hit a real taunt line,
the point scout did,
who had stepped over and grabbed the guy behind him,
bring his hand down,
show him where that wire was.
And he had stepped over the wire,
he had put his,
layover,
grabbed the guy behind him,
and that's how we got across until we got everybody across and got a head count.
They wouldn't move on.
That's just when we trapped stuff.
You know what I mean?
We,
that's just,
and you didn't,
you couldn't see it was pitch black.
That's why we have the guys hand,
showed him where it was.
And if it's a tie one,
you don't cut it.
If it's all loose and stuff,
then yeah,
cut it.
So,
how would the wood,
how would the plant man see that?
Yeah,
yeah,
what they called,
we used,
you take a,
a,
a twig,
a long,
a string on the real,
no,
no string on it.
But just like a fish and pull,
and you just run that up and down like that,
when moved and you'd feel it,
just like you would,
if you got a trout or a bite,
and then you work your hand down,
you reach over there and feel,
and see what that is.
Yeah.
And ninja.
You know what the other,
the other interesting thing that,
when you started talking about,
sealed him and going out at night time,
and how that was all,
on orthodox and people were doing it,
is the opposite of when we were in the body,
we started going out the daytime.
And the reason we started going out the day,
there was a bunch of reasons why we started going out the day time,
but one of the main reasons was the enemy,
knew that we owned the night.
We had night vision,
we had that,
we,
we owned the night.
And so they didn't want to go out at night.
And today,
when out daytime,
that's when they felt planted their ideas,
it's when they killed people,
that's what,
and so we went out the daytime,
because that's where the bad guys were out.
Well,
yeah,
daytime and bed,
and I'm two years ago,
sleeping and hammocks and shared with rats,
moping because we knew there had been out of night doing shit,
so we wanted to talk to them.
You know,
just like a rules of engagement shit,
when we got my last platoon,
we stopped in Saigon,
and went to Mac for a V in our LT got his orders.
His orders were pacified,
the Van Long Province.
Wow.
That was his orders.
Pacified the Van Long Province.
Roger that.
And that's where we went off and did it.
You know,
no rules of engagement,
nothing just pacified,
and then there was like,
okay.
Yeah.
That's that.
And we didn't work for the Army,
Navy,
Marines or anybody.
We were all in the,
so if you'd been the old till the day of Jockel,
you'd have,
you'd have the con.
We would have a con.
Matter of fact,
we were at Don Tam,
they had an able base here,
and then the big Army base here at Don Tam.
They had a stay on the Vietnamese Navy base,
in between them,
because the Navy didn't really want us on their base.
Plus their boats are right down there on the work,
so it worked out perfect,
you know what I mean?
You go to the Army to,
you know,
test our West side,
and check stuff.
Yeah,
and they were doing that all the time,
so it wasn't like,
you know what I mean?
It wasn't anything unusual, you know what I mean?
So,
going back now,
you get back from your first deployment with UDT.
You go to the C.L.T.
and you show up,
you're going through the train.
What was the,
what was the,
you kind of talked to me a little bit about this before,
but how are you getting treated?
Because you got,
you got wounded on your first deployment as a UDT.
So here you are,
your combat veteran,
you've been in the shit,
you've been wounded.
We call it a day at Kong and Cheeman,
not that.
So,
so you show up at C.L.T.1.
You're kind of like,
hey,
I'm a experienced veteran.
I've been through the shit.
And that means shit.
And they just,
the guys there,
how they treat you.
Well,
I mean,
all right,
just the same.
I mean,
I had a trip with UDT,
but just about everybody
that went into C.L.T.
came out of UDT,
11 or 12 into C.L.T.
You know what I mean?
Back in the day,
before they started bringing them right into a seal team,
the new guys,
you know?
So it wasn't any different to the guys there.
You just had to learn.
I mean,
you know,
when I was in UDT,
I'd tell you,
I wish they really wanted to go.
Like when we were at Donknam,
that was during the 67,
68,
and we got a call that the East Coast for
Tuning,
the Meetall,
which wasn't too far away from Donknam,
was being overran,
literally they were up in a tall building,
so they held out real good.
They were the tallest building,
and they had a 57,
and they called us,
and you can hear the VC coming up
the stairways that throw grenades down and shit like that.
And they needed some help,
and they were about 17 of us down on that
dark patrol on the USS Benoelle,
right by Donknam,
and we begged our lieutenant,
down let us go in there.
We'd have been fucking killed.
Our heart was there,
but we didn't have the IED training,
media reaction,
you know,
I mean,
none of that shit.
we'd have been.
It would have been stupid,
so oldies,
our lieutenant said,
no,
we hated him,
you know,
then I got back and went to a
cadre or SQT
and did all that stuff,
and then deployed next time I saw John Odech,
I hugged him,
I said,
you're just one smart son of a bitch,
dude.
Our heart was there,
you don't have to be,
but UDT,
you just weren't trained to operate on land.
You didn't have the,
the pre-risk,
get skills that you learn
and then you're going to be
in the SQT and stuff, you know what I mean?
And you get more of that even in
Buds now than we ever got,
because we were trying to be a frogman,
that was it.
I mean,
our last,
uh,
off we did at San Camini Island,
who was,
we swim or scouted in by
Birdshet Rock,
and I can tell you,
did you know,
I'm talking about,
they gave us 40 pounds of demo,
have a sack,
we went 26 miles down
the other end of the island,
blew up a target,
and came 26 miles back
and attacked the camp,
guys as we were
patrolling,
that ambushes,
and then pick out guys that
been killed pretty soon,
we were all followed down,
they'd go,
God damn it,
would tell you who we shot,
then they'd get to go back to
camp and defend it when we came back
and attacked it.
But it was still just a demo
raid, you know what I mean?
It wasn't anything,
uh,
patrolling real good,
patrolling tactics,
and all that stuff that you learn.
You don't mean,
I mean,
like I went out with the Australian SAS
in a newly-de-edit,
and did a week out in the field,
I was a week,
or was it two weeks?
Was this when you were at Team One,
or at Team One?
My second but tuned,
two of us,
we had the Aussies come down and work with us,
and they loved it,
and we went up to Newy Dept,
and I was just 60 guy,
we went up and went out with them,
we did a 10 day patrol with them,
resupplying all this,
if they never talked,
said one word,
that hope a patrol is all hand in arm signals,
that's awesome,
and they would get an LUP at night,
everybody with their feet out,
and you'd land on your pat,
have your weapon right,
actually pull what they call the silky up,
and you'd go to sleep,
when we didn't sleep for about two nights,
because that's when we usually went out and worked,
then we started to,
because the way they figured it,
there was an arulnois area,
and somebody in that circle would be awake,
and if we got sprung or something,
then you have 360 degree firepower,
and we got out of there.
But they were the best I've ever seen,
I've been to, I went to Army Ranger School,
a radar group school,
and everything in that one 10 day patrol
of the Australians,
I learned more about reconnaissance,
and I did anywhere, anywhere.
We used to have guys from that say,
that's come to come to Team I,
that's metaphor, yeah.
They did,
we had that program for a long time,
but the last guy we had there was an officer,
and he was worth the ship,
but some of the sergeants we had.
The guys that, that were there when I showed up,
were really square-to-wear guys that definitely had their field craft down.
Oh, they're so good.
That's what I was trying to say.
Yeah, a field craft.
We did, and UDT,
you just didn't have the field craft
beyond the jungle looking for people,
and shit, you know,
that's why in UDT 13,
some of the guys got killed,
stuff down trails,
and shit like that,
they didn't, you know what I mean?
Got it kind of heavy,
shit together a little bit.
Yeah.
So you go,
go through the cadre training,
you check into your platoon,
and it's time to go into point,
are you flying out of North Island?
Yeah, we fly out of North Island,
and my first platoon,
we flew into
Camron Bay,
and then took choppers down to a place called
New Namcan,
which is the very southern part of South Vietnam,
right by a place that called the UDT in Forest.
It needed to do some turnover-offs
with the other platoons that were there.
No turnover-offs.
We didn't at that time.
Matter of fact, most of our officer,
dark boardoffs,
yeah, we heard of those.
That's where you put a map behind you,
choosing one of the guys in the platoon.
You saw a dark behind you,
where that dark hits is where you're going to go into.
Because we didn't have intel,
we didn't have shit,
we were pretty isolated,
we were in a Vietnamese base camp,
and BFE-Jep,
you know what I mean?
So that's how we went out.
Is it what you do in helicopter insert or a river insert?
All river in,
and actually out of a
new Namcan where we were,
would take sand pans out,
because we didn't even have any MST support or anything.
The guys down at Seaflow did,
which is a ways of way from the entire other squad was there.
And finally, they pulled us out of new Namcan,
because we weren't,
we were doing stuff,
but it wasn't,
wasn't effective.
It wasn't real strategic.
So they brought us down to Seaflow,
then we started getting some good ups down there.
They didn't want those ups like.
We still did river inops,
like we went down to a place called Square Bay,
and because we heard there was a prison
or work camp and stayed down there for about three days.
Watching this trails,
seeing if we can see him moving and stuff like that.
We'd do ambushes,
we'd get intel from our Navy Nile,
which still wasn't that good.
Oh, one of the things in 1969,
that was first of the tunes in 1969,
was we landed at New Namcan,
got her stuff off the old 46th of the land in it,
there and put it in the bunker,
and then this little load came in and landed,
you know,
no, I don't know his name,
he was a prude guy in that province,
that we were in down there.
So he came in and told us,
you guys need anything,
just let us know,
and this is that load to left.
We got mortar for about an hour and a half.
So we told him never to come there again,
because they knew what that load to it.
He was a prude,
you know,
that was a prude guy.
Now,
that was a great guy.
But,
yeah,
and he was a prude and long hair,
you know, bearded, you know.
It's a little,
the tune set up was,
yeah,
an OIC and a OIC,
a Petune Chief and an LPL kind of like what you'd run.
Well,
what we'd ran into.
And two squads.
The LPL,
and just like what you'd do.
Just the same one,
exactly,
yeah.
And then we broke it down,
you know,
to mean,
yeah,
you're like,
I was with the A OIC.
And the last Petune I was in was with,
was with,
was my A OIC.
Really?
Yeah.
Well, you know,
that was,
when was that 89?
Damn.
Yeah.
Yeah,
that's awesome.
But he was,
I must be at fun.
Yeah,
he was a great guy.
Awesome.
But I'm just saying he was easy.
A OIC was the OIC.
Yeah.
So,
We had the LPL would work with him.
And then I would,
you know,
I have,
the kind of guy he was,
I was a senior kid.
And that's awesome.
Yeah.
That's awesome.
I don't know if you knew anything.
Yeah.
They're all in my platoon.
With my radio and horse radio,
whatever had my life,
you know.
Yeah.
I could imagine.
Oh, you know,
I could tell you,
yeah.
Guess you never carried a radio on the team.
Really?
You never carried a radio?
No,
It's a 60-gunner day.
Two-way media appeal.
Then I went to the M14.
I like the 76-2 round.
Yeah.
That's the,
that's kind of the same.
When I went to the rescue team,
they told us if you're not carrying a,
I didn't 14.
You're wrong.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
That's a great weapon.
It's accurate.
It's perfect.
I love the game.
And guys,
even a bunch of guys were a body carry the M14 as well.
Yeah.
Because they're shooting, you know, you shoot at vehicles, you shoot,
you shoot, you do buildings shooting.
And they put the,
the,
our AP rounds in there.
And just,
Yeah.
That we don't got some.
You can,
you can dig through some stuff.
Yeah.
We did sexual supply month.
And I did three deployments.
I did,
1969.
I was in,
Keyloplotoon.
And then came back from that.
Then I actually got out for a year and a half.
Because I was married.
And my wife talked me to get now.
So I did.
And I did work for the phone company as a cable splacer.
He did everybody and everything.
We lived in Coronado.
So I'd go down the trade winds and all my buddies would tell me.
What great trips are having and stuff.
And I just went, you know,
What year was that?
That was,
see,
so we said we won.
That was going to go back to the 69.
So when you got back in 69,
you got out for a year and a half.
Well,
about a year,
maybe not quite a year and a half.
But I went back in and gotten another platoon.
Luckily,
you went to Vietnam again,
771.
And I had.
Guys like that.
That was a great platoon.
There was that always out there.
You and LPO that, too?
No, I was so excited.
We were just 60 together getting after.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
There was that was early difference between that first seal
deployment to Vietnam.
Yeah, I was really happy with the first deployment.
Because we just didn't do a lot.
I mean, it was okay.
We did some stuff.
But it wasn't my idea of what it should be.
You know, it's a seal.
You know what I'm saying?
Oh, yeah.
And then it was better when I got down to seafood.
But it's still, you know,
I mean,
but that second platoon,
that's the one that kept me in the Navy.
You know,
they were just,
you know,
we're band brothers.
You know,
I mean,
we were so close.
I was unbelievable.
I mean,
I love those guys.
The difference in what you did was
the missions that you got tasked with is
that the platoon commander kind of set things up
so that he had a better vision of what to do and what to get after.
Absolutely.
I was in my second platoon.
That guy was just unbelievable.
I mean,
he was just really really good.
Our first platoon,
it was.
He was kind of nuts.
We didn't like him.
Like one time we're all clean our weapons on seafood.
And everything.
And what we used to come back when up is gravel line.
And then you jump in the water and let it wash all the mud off.
Yeah.
Well, he grabbed the line jumped in.
We had music roll out and
clean our weapons in the shed.
Well, the line wasn't tied off right.
So he just started going on the river.
But they saw him in the watch tower and said,
man overboard and what he got.
You know,
something that something that we talk about
on here and up some of experience
is having blue on blue situations take place.
Yeah.
And it's really hard for people to understand how it happens.
But I know that you had,
you had one of those happen.
You want to kind of give a quick debrief on that.
Yeah.
We're about ready to go home.
We had new platoon come in.
They wanted to do a break and up,
not mentioning names of the officers,
but they wanted to do a hammer and a handle off,
which you just don't do with a brand new platoon.
And would been there,
you know,
we had our stuff together pretty well in that area.
But what it was was we were supposed to push
these bad guys to the VC into these guys that were in a tree line.
And they inserted it to the wrong place to start with.
So when we started working our way in,
we kind of came up to this tree line word ended
a rice patty.
And then there was another tree line.
I couldn't give you the,
it was a halfway decent ways away.
You know what I'm saying?
But we had three kick cars and scouts with us.
Kick cars and scouts were north of the enemies that had,
gave,
turned over to the south enemies and they put them in camps.
And they called them two holy camps,
basically.
And what we would do is we'd go to these camps.
And we would get these guys that new our area that we're working in.
And through an interpreter and stuff,
we'd brief them everything.
And they'd come and work with us.
And they'd work with us for a couple of offs till they became kind of trusted agents.
And they were pretty good, and most of them were not north enemies.
The VC that were good fighters.
And then we lived to the,
the whole nine yard, we paid them.
We had money from now for a baby.
They gave us a lot of money to pay these guys and stuff.
So they weren't doing it just for free.
You know, because they needed money for their families.
And I don't know,
a toss of these that happened to their families is one of the reasons.
They two holy and came to our,
to the south enemies side.
Anyway, we had three of those guys coming out in front of us.
Blackwood, Jammer's, 1847's.
Looks just like VC, you know.
So the brand new Patoon saw three guys coming out of the tree line that
were VC, so they opened up on them.
killed two of them and wounded together.
And we swung off to the left.
And laid down.
And they were shooting sections and stoneers that us.
But shit was just falling under her heads because they were shooting high.
Like, you guys generally do before you.
And then it was a pretty new brand new guys in that little tune.
You know, they weren't experienced in shit normally.
You walk in me and whatever.
You know, so we're yelling the radio,
cease fire, cease fire.
And we had our officer that was where this got upon his knees.
It's you back and then my gun shot through the heart.
And we finally got him to stop.
And then we got him out of there.
He was dead though.
He shot right to the heart.
You know.
That was a blue and blue thing.
That was pretty bad.
And that was right before you went home.
Yeah.
Yeah, the confused that happened to us.
It was called a breaking up.
You know, like I say the new that the new platoon had about two guys.
I think their LPO can't remember his name.
And then was with me on that beat where we got shot.
He was also on my train class.
He was either the OEC or AAC on it.
But most of us and we're all brand new guys.
You know, I mean, good training.
Everything, but you know, this is their first song.
God damn, we're in a firefight.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
We have to be the opportunity to slowly work into the combat situations.
You know, do a smaller patrol, do an easier patrol.
That's what we normally did.
Yeah.
If you're not kind of overwrite your officers that you got.
You know, taking them out in the daytime.
That was a daytime off either way.
But usually it's just to kind of get them or in any way to the environment.
What they're going to be.
And then we all had these.
I don't know if we had one in 69, but 771.
We had these barn dance files.
And every off we went on we put a synopsis in this barn dance.
So if you were going to go in that same area, you could pull out that barn dance file and read it and see what the guys that's seen there.
Enemy.
What the train was like on and on.
You know what I mean?
Mm-hmm.
It was that was pretty good.
Real good.
And almost every platoon had those from previous platoons all the way up to you.
So you can kind of get an idea of what you're going into.
If you didn't have intel on that area.
What are some of the leadership you talked about your second platoon being super tight super close?
What were some of the leadership characteristics that you saw from the platoon chief and the platoon commander that as you look back.
You recognize that those were really good traits that really brought everyone together.
Well, was our chief.
He made senior chief.
He had been over about three times.
And it was just very easy going.
But very sharp and he understood things really well.
Our LPO was Gary Smith.
She just Smith.
And he had been a screwdriver in that province.
So as far as getting intel on all of our other sides, it was perfect.
And then, I wouldn't say much about him.
But our L.T.
He was out.
And he went on almost every up.
In fact, one time, he burned his hand with a smoker.
And we're still going to go out.
He was going to go out with us.
He just had his hand wrapped up and shed.
So he has over the office club on the Navy side eating.
And the officers send your hands all.
Benny's up and said, you're still going out.
He says, yeah, I think you've buy my guys.
I'm dead anyway.
But he was really good.
He had his head on his shoulders.
Figured out things.
Quick thinker.
You know what I mean?
And it was just a neat.
He was just good.
And how about, I mean, you know, we always obviously hear now.
Veterans get treated great now.
I mean, from the Afghan war in Iraq war, we get treated really great by.
For the most part, by America and by the public, we get treated really well.
Compared to what you guys had to deal with and Vietnam.
Well, how much of that did you see when you'd come home?
Was it, I mean, Coronado is a pretty pro Navy town.
I mean, in San Diego, it's a pretty pro Navy town.
Was it the same way back then?
Was it relatively pro Navy?
Or did you see some of the, some of the hippies and whatnot coming on?
And it had some demonstrations sometimes.
You know what I mean?
Like downtown San Diego.
But not much.
And we basically just hung out here in San Diego or to other bars that we knew.
We'd fly out on North Island, fly in on North Island.
It wasn't like we were flying in the San Francisco or something.
So we didn't get hit with that real real heavily.
You know what I mean?
And if we did have issues that are bar some of our, we usually skirted away pretty quick.
You know, so it wasn't really a problem.
We didn't really our guys here.
These ghost guys that don't know, our guys here.
We didn't really have everything.
I'll tell you an opto in 69.
We, we're going up this one canal and we used the,
PBR's couldn't get up it.
So we had to take a Boston way to wrap it with a twin-six season of front and one guy would set and steer the steer it.
You know, we would take a squad up there.
Maybe five guys, you know, and whatever squad didn't have the opto night,
they got to be the driver in the gunner,
which I got to be the driver once and I wasn't happy.
I covered myself with flag jackets.
I mean, who's anybody going to shoot at?
Oh yeah.
So we were going up real slow up this thing and all kinds of,
filament lines and stuff like that that were cut in our cell suit.
Because it was low tide.
Luckily it wasn't high tide.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
So we got up there and, and put the guys in and we came back out in the PBR said,
what the boats into a bank right?
So we're sitting there on the PBR me and my buddy that was the gunner, another seal.
And I was sitting across this river.
We were just pup pup pup pup pup.
It was the sandpan.
So we're going to go after it's some bitch.
But one guy driving, one guy in the 60, we need a guy with that could see too.
You know what I mean?
Because you, you know.
So we asked one of the PBR guys, you know, who wants to go with us.
And this whole time we've been with him and God damn we'd love to go with you guys.
The only guy on that boat that volunteered was the guy that was married.
Yeah.
The rest of wouldn't do it.
So we jumped his sandpan.
One after the other one, hose them down.
They hit the bank.
And then there was blood trails going into the killed one of them.
He was laying in the boat and the other guy had gotten out and ran.
And he could see blood spots, you know, following them.
Well, we didn't go after him.
We're not that stupid.
You know, nighttime.
You know, he's probably dying.
Yeah, I'll take these fuckers.
Guys out with me.
Sorry we brought the sandpan back and God damn we had a big thing of intel.
And weapons and all kinds of shit.
And the other guys that we went up and got the other guys bought them out.
They didn't do a thing.
You know, it's pretty neat.
That's sketchy.
Yeah.
I can't imagine the, that you guys would just go buy these filament wires and step over these trip wires
and just continue on your mission.
That's sketchy.
Yeah, after.
So what you, you know, it's what we did anyway.
So I wasn't on this off.
But it was that, you know, a couple of the guys from the other squad went down to square bay.
And we'd gotten this intel that the sandpan pretty good size one.
Almost like a junk would go up the river at nighttime up the main river where seafood was up by that way.
You know, so George and those guys were down there.
They were again, we're in a Boston way, they had a couple of law rockets with them and stuff like that.
You know, so they figured we'll shut.
We haven't really been a dry hole here.
We had that goddamn, the junk when it comes by, you know.
So they go out after the junk and they could hear it and then see the silhouette of it.
You know, so they got real close to it and fires a, fires a law rocket and hit the stern, not the exact rudder and everything.
Then popped a flare so they could shoot and everything.
And well, after they popped their flare about 15 other flares popped and it wasn't there us.
So behind it was all the sort of short-tell of sand pans and shint and so they took off and we're shooting back with their stone or in 60 and stuff like that.
Finally they called and then a couple of PBRs came down and saved them.
That was a pretty good off.
That's, that's just so that's one of the major differences, you know, with us having night vision now.
The way that you guys had to utilize illumination and we did, we did utilize illumination for time at the time.
We actually, on big, big operation sometimes we'd have the army firing of the army.
Artillery would be firing illumination in certain situations, but generally we weren't doing that.
Yeah, the damn bushes were always fired a flare up, they ought to get the good vision.
Yeah, well, we had them. We got out of there.
You know, put a claymores out and claymores behind us.
You know, me and everything sat there and put dudes that come down the river and then we had them.
You know, and then, so you get, you get back from from your second torn view.
And I'm in, is that the warrant, right? I mean, this is pretty much it was.
In fact, a platoon that was that Ben Luck, which was 40 miles away from us.
They were only over there for three months and they came back to.
So we were the last four to point deployed platoon in Vietnam.
There was no member platoon.
Was it Chief, like he said, a sponge a great guy's not platoon?
In, in, I mean, at that time there was a couple hundred guys at Silti-1.
I think there was about maybe, and it boosted up real high.
So there might have been 250.
I think there was only about 150 when I got into the,
I don't know, if the big push had started yet to build more guys up.
It wasn't a lot. You knew everybody.
I mean, it was a pretty tight, tight group.
You want to get one guy that we both know, he told me when he checked in the Silti-1 back then.
He was like taking a shower after PT and like every guy was shot up.
Like you could just see what every guy was, you know, you could see scars and they're armed,
leg, swoomed in.
Did you, did you, did you, what a lot of guys stay in it at that time?
A lot of guys do a couple of tunes.
I think after the, no, most of the guy stayed in, that's what we did.
That's what we loved. And then after the war, yeah, we had a pretty good,
access to some people getting out.
And when they get out because there was nothing to do, you know,
that's what they were doing. That was there, you know, there's nothing else.
I mean, what are you going to do, you know,
and I think in, because I just like the guys, I like all we did, you know,
when I was over at Buds, I come back in 1971 and then went over to Buds as an instructor.
And I got bored doing that. So there was this guy called,
I'll tell you, I would not want to be a student when you are bored as a Buds instructor.
I was a nice guy there.
Anyway, so, I went, buddy, Doll was in UDT,
he's a little bit of guy from Colorado and he was a rodeo rider, right?
So he talks me in the going out this place called Burton,
which is out by, wasn't like sign. It was Lemon Valley,
Lemon Grove. Lemon Grove. Yeah. And there was a place called Burton's out there.
And it was just all bulls, but they were dinks. They weren't real.
You rode your bulls, you know. So I went out there and,
hell, I liked it. Never got bucked off there. So I went rodeo and went to IRA
and PRCA.
And actually thought about getting out of the Navy to ride rodeo because I loved it.
But then I got bored because rodeo bulls are, I rode bulls.
They're the last of the event, right?
Yeah.
So I started riding Bearback in South of Orange.
But I got stepped on, well, I got 22 stitches in my left side of my face,
14 in the back of my head, and had both my shoulders dislocated.
When it was a god-goard, then I got stepped on and had five buss,
the ribs and punctured along. So I figured, okay, that's enough.
I quit doing that and just ate in the teams, you know.
The teams are safe for the rodeo ride.
Yeah, that was over over a year and a half, almost two years.
Yeah.
What about guys? I mean, how were guys doing as far as handling what they've seen
and coming back and all of a sudden they're in Main Street?
Dude, we didn't have that problem.
I mean, I'm telling you, the guys that were crazy were crazy before they went on.
I didn't see that.
They weren't, I mean, I know all my buddies and in fact,
Thursday, this Thursday night, we have that UDT, Vietnam UDT seal,
get together and Thursday night talk those guys.
You don't see, but you know, I've got to go to the hospital and mentally owned.
Not that I know if I tell you.
There may be, it did happen, but the only guy I know that really got affected
was he was with that one platoon.
I can't think of him.
And they were taking a part of Mortar in the mortar blew up.
And he had just left to have a cigarette and all his buddies got killed by that Mortar
and stuff including the guy named who was just a superb guy.
And he wasn't quite the same after that.
And I can understand that.
I mean, not, you know what I mean?
But just being the firefights and shit like that and stuff that happened.
But you know, we just, it was the way I was.
And even when you, even when you got out for the first, so then you did,
you did 30 years in the Navy.
And you know, that was another funny thing when you, when I talked about earlier
when you, when you graded our, you laying graded me for the first time.
I don't know how old you were.
It was 1993, maybe 1993 or you.
I was in, uh, alfoutoon at team one with, uh,
and I'm going to, yeah, I was a good off.
Yeah, but you were, I don't know how old you were in that time period.
But, you know, for, for my perspective, you were like 170 years old, right?
Yeah, yeah.
And I'm thinking about yourself, hey, this guy's deal.
This is this Roger Aden.
And you're like putting on your wetsuit.
Okay, put on the wetsuit.
I guess you're going to get in the water.
Get some water, swim in.
Do the recolbs.
I'm in with the recolon and then he swim back out.
Swim back out, you know?
That was a good job.
That was such a good job to do.
If you're going to do orange, you've got to do them right.
You know, old pointy to point me.
Otherwise, you don't see everything, you know?
And that's what I liked.
I was a warrant in.
But that's what I liked my last three or four years, three years,
I think, in the, in the teams as I did a orange.
So you still got to have your feet on the ground of the boys, you know?
It couldn't be an opportunity.
But that's what I wanted to do.
Yeah, there's nothing, there's nothing better than, uh,
there's nothing better than the, uh, than the putoon life.
Now, I know that I know that you're short on time, and I,
and I, I rushed this and, uh,
I'm glad we were able to get a little bit done.
And I think maybe after after this one,
we need to listen to it and, and I'll probably end up with a bunch more questions.
I know people that are listening to this,
a bunch of team guys listening to this.
They, they actually, a bunch of team guys sent me a bunch of questions.
I didn't get to any of them.
Yeah, we were, yeah, I know it's a, I'm sorry.
No, it's all good.
It's all good. Yeah, things that pop up in your head when you talk about it.
I mean, I mean, there's a lot of, I mean, I was a,
I was a frogman first, and they'll see, you know, see that.
Yeah, that was probably one of the best appointments ever had.
And that was great.
And Philopines is great.
And we were so glad to leave the Philopines and go back to the depth,
just to get out of for a while, that he died, you know?
So, uh,
we'll definitely get you back on here.
And like I said, next time I'll, I'll, I'll get some questions from the team,
guys that, that they asked me to ask you and go through some of those.
But, thanks for coming on.
I know like I said, I know you've never, never been out in the public eye before.
And that's just the, the epitome of a quiet professional that, that we were all raised on.
And I appreciate it.
Like I said, you're a hero mine.
You're a hero with the seal teams and you're really a hero to everybody in this, in this country.
And if anybody out there wants to continue this conversation, you can, you can get echo Charles and I,
all in the social media echo is at echo Charles.
I am at Jocca willing.
We're on all the different social media Twitter, Instagram, and the Facebook.
If you want to support the podcast, echo Charles, how can they do it?
If you want some supplements, the kind that work, obviously, on it has the best ones.
So you got to on it.com slash jockel, you get 10% off.
That's one way.
Also, before you do your Amazon shopping, of course, go to one of the websites, right?
Jockelstore or jocpottcast.com.
Click through the Amazon link there before you do your shopping.
Or to make that part easier, we have this, the trooper tool.
It's just this little extension thing you can put on your browser.
You get that on any other website as well.
You just click on it's called the jocco store trooper tool Chrome extension.
Just click on that confirm.
It's on there.
It automatically do it for you.
So you don't have to remember it's good.
Also, if you like the shirts that we have, well, that's the ones discipline equals freedom.
It's a good one.
But yeah, I get some of those.
That's how you can support.
Awesome.
And you can get the book that latefabbin and I wrote that actually Roger did the security clearance on.
I just reviewed it for you.
For you to think, you know what I mean?
Yeah, for me to think.
But one thing I will say, you know, I don't think I'm a hero.
I'm going to go over and then did my job had a lot of fun.
This was a great guy.
You know, that's money.
Well, that's one of the things that makes you hero.
And thanks.
Thanks for coming on the show.
And also, if you don't know, we're having a little,
little conference out here in San Diego, California, October 20th and 21st.
It's not going to be for everybody.
But if you want to get in the game, if you want to do something that's going to be intense to focus.
You want to talk about leadership.
We're going to talk about getting better at what we do.
Come on out the master October 20th and 21st.
Roger, thanks again for coming on the show.
Thanks for everything you did.
Serving this country in Vietnam and spending the rest of your life.
Supporting the seal teams dedicated to our country.
And like I said, Roger is kind of an unknown veteran.
And I would like to take a moment to thank all the Vietnam veterans that fought with courage and with honor in a hard war,
in an unpopular war.
And not only fought for freedom against the evils of communism,
but also a established and passed on lessons learned for the current generation of war fighters.
We owe all of you a great debt of gratitude for what you did for us and for the United States of America.
And everyone else out there, thanks for listening, thanks for spreading the word.
And as you go through life, remember the sacrifice of these veterans that fought and sacrificed for us,
so that we can live with the sacred freedom to go out into the world and get after it.
So until next time, this is echo and jacco, right in this true hero,
worn officer, chief worn officer, seal, retired, Roger,
out.